[Music]
what could be manlier than broad and
powerful shoulders
other than being thoughtful charming and
witty you ask well personality aside if
you're aiming at a strong and masculine
look your arms and shoulders are the
thing to start from I mean even if you
don't pay that much attention to the
rest of your body broad shoulders will
give you that much desired v-shape
making you look bigger in a good way of
course so let's have a look at what you
can do number one dumbbell shoulder
press this exercise is aimed at the
front and middle parts of your shoulder
muscles you can do it either standing or
sitting the latter being easier on your
lower back which is always good so I
recommend starting with it sit on a
bench and press your back against the
back support take a dumbbell with each
hand and raise your hands to shoulder
height your palms facing forward now
exhale and push your arms up
straightening them and letting the
dumbbells meet above your head hold them
up for a second inhale and slowly return
to the initial position it's important
to note that for this and all the
following exercises when you take the
weights it's best to take the heaviest
you can lift and do as many reps as you
can before you fail have a short rest
about 10 seconds and then give it
another go don't get discouraged that
you can't do as many reps as the first
time around this is absolutely ok your
muscles get tired just do your best and
you'll be all right
[Music]
number 2 side lateral raise add some
rest
good get ready for another set this one
will target mainly the middle section of
your shoulders which helps them look
around it stand straight with a dumbbell
in either hand and with your feet
shoulder-width apart your arms should
hang along your body with your palms
facing your torso exhale and slowly
raise your arms to the sides until
they're level with your shoulders don't
go any higher you might get injured and
we'll see how cool you are anyways also
slightly bend your elbows when lifting
it'll create additional leverage and
make it easier for you to stand still oh
by the way standing in an upright
position without swinging is very
important for the correct form you want
your shoulders bigger or your spine
screwed so there now when your arms are
parallel to the floor hold them for a
second inhale and slowly back down
that's one rep once again do as many
reps with the heaviest weights as you
can until you fail then follow up with a
couple more sets until you simply can't
do it any longer
after that have some well-deserved rest
hmm thirty seconds huh number three
seated bent over raised let's finally
make your rear shoulder sections work
shall we sit down on the end of a bench
and bend over almost touching your chest
to your needs grip your trusty dumbbells
as if your life depends on them and get
ready to lift put your legs together
keep your back straight and your palms
facing your calves now slightly bend
your elbows exhale and raise your arms
to the sides until they're parallel to
the floor don't swing your torso or
raise the arms back this is poor form
and you won't get anything from it
except pain in the back hold on for a
second inhale and slowly lower your arms
back to your calves repeat as many times
okay I've said this twice already I
think you get it number four standing
dumbbell fly middle shoulder sections
again so that your arms don't get mad at
you stand up straight
holding a dumbbell in either hand hang
your arms straight along your body with
your palms facing the torso plant your
feet firmly on the ground
shoulder-width apart now exhale and
keeping your torso stationary raise your
arms to the sides if you've been
listening to me you have haven't you
then you'll be lifting relatively heavy
weights so you won't be able to raise
your arms
parallel to the floor that's good you
don't need to just raise them as high as
you can without over straining yourself
if you look in the mirror you'll see you
look like Batman in mid jump from a roof
or like a fly but I prefer Batman this
exercise is almost like the side lateral
raise but not quite with standing
dumbbell fly you concentrate more on
your middle shoulder sections isolating
those muscle heads and giving them more
prominence number 5 seated dumbbell
clean now this one is an explosive
strength exercise that will give your
front sections uh nice shock sit on the
end of the bench planting your feet
firmly on the floor about shoulder-width
apart grab the dumbbells with your palms
facing backwards
lean forward keeping your back straight
and then burst upwards straightening
yourself and raising the dumbbells to
the shoulder level in a swift motion
make sure to flip your wrists and grab
the weights on top or you'll just fall
on your face especially if they're heavy
remember that your lower back shouldn't
take any part in this your main goal is
to explode with your shoulders so that
they start to burn hold the top position
for a second then without letting the
momentum drag you slowly return to the
initial position number six dips yeah
that's the name of the next exercise did
you expect something more elaborate
sorry anyway I guess you're already
tired of dumbbells by now so how about
some change of scenery sit on a bench
and place your palms on its edge
gripping it with your fingers on either
side of your body plant your legs firmly
on the floor or even better if you have
an elevated object not quite as high as
the bench or sitting on place your feet
on it this way your legs will be
suspended making the exercise more
effective now holding your bodyweight
with your hands and feet then inhale and
lower your body until your elbows make a
right angle and your upper arms are
parallel to the floor
exhale and push yourself up until your
arms are straight again dips are an
excellent workout for all three sections
of your shoulders plus your triceps and
their additional bonus is that they
don't require any special equipment if
you don't have a bench a regular chair
will do just as well
[Music]
numero seven Pike press look another
exercise and still no dumbbells needed
this one looks a bit strange but it's
great for the front and middle sections
of your shoulders as well as your upper
back as an added benefit get into the
regular push-up position with your arms
straight palms right beneath the
shoulders and your legs straight too
propped on the toes push your hips up so
that your whole body now makes a
reversed v-shape make sure your arms
back and head make a straight line at an
angle to the floor now lower your body
in a dive like motion keeping your legs
straight and only bending your elbows at
the end of it your forehead should
nearly touch the floor between your
hands exhale and press yourself back up
that's one rep hey look at it as a
push-up going wrong number eight
dumbbell shrugs Hey dumbbells are back
missing them I know me neither
still we have to finish this off with an
exercise that's good for your entire
shoulder and dumbbell shrugs are an
excellent workout for this basically
they are with a sound like shrugs
grap the dumbbells and stand up straight
with your feet hip width apart and your
arms straight along your body don't bend
your elbows just let them hang now
without any extra movements raise your
shoulders as high as you can hold on for
a second and lower them back repeat for
as many times as you can well the usual
routine
and here we are that's it for today's
shoulder workout one of the best things
about it apart from the whole shoulder
growing thing of course is that it
doesn't take much time at the beginning
all they'd exercises will take you about
ten to fifteen minutes to complete a
couple of things to remember before you
go grab your dumbbells though don't
forget to do a warm-up before the
workout I know it's kind of obvious but
your muscles need to be ready for
intensive training otherwise you risk
injuries and excess muscle pain
afterwards same goes for cooldown
exercises after working out many people
neglect them but they're important if
you want your muscles to grow at their
best rate they look the same as warm-up
but here you unwind your muscles to let
them recover faster instead of getting
them ready for action and finally don't
be too hard on yourself
let your shoulders rest between training
sessions three times a week should be
enough for the optimal regiment if you
do this set every day your muscles won't
be able to recover and you won't do
yourself a favor remember everything's
good in moderation
except ice cream with ice cream too much
of a good thing can be wonderful okay
bright ciders what other workouts would
you like to see on this channel let me
know down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go off pumping iron just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life
[Music]